Code Book for Course Project submission for Getting and Cleaning Data

Description of the raw data
A full description of raw data can be found on this website: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones



Transformations on the raw data follow the sequence and processing as defined in the project requirements and are explained below:
 
Step 1: Merge the training and the test sets to create one data set.

The data in the file activity_labels.txt is read into the array activityType. This array is of dimension 2X6 and contains the names of the 6 descriptive activities, as shown below:
V1	V2
1	WALKING
2	WALKING_UPSTAIRS
3	WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
4	SITTING
5	STANDING
6	LAYING

The data for Trainingand Test measurements (which in their raw form reside in different files) are read into different variables.

The Training set contains 7352 records

The Train and Test sets are processed to align the column names
The two sets are then merged using the R function - rbind.

Step 2: Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.

Features indices are read into a matrix[idx,featureName]
Features are filtered using grep containing "mean" or "std"
DataSet columns are filtered by indices returned in second step.
Training/Test activities are read into different variables.
Merging (making a union) of both sets using rbind.
Training/Test subjects are read into different variables.
Merging (making a union) of both sets using rbind.
Merging measurements,activities,subjects using cbind.
Part 3: Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set

Activity column is converted into factor.
Activity factor is renamed with descriptive activity names.
Activity column is assigned the descriptive factors.
Part 4: Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive activity names. Assumption: Descriptive names = descriptive column names. Column names also set in Part 2

Part 5: Creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

Data set created above is transformed into a data table.
Columns are averaged grouping by "Activity" and "subject"
columns are renamed with a descriptive name: 'mean("measurament")'
Tidy set is written to a file.
